Search API - Formatting Search Results (#120)
meilisearch/specifications: text/0118-search-api.md

Search results include a `_formatted` object containing the highlighted terms when this parameter is defined. See [3.2.1.1.2. `_formatted`](#32112-formatted) section.

Highlighted parts are surrounded by the [`highlightPreTag`](#319-highlightpretag) and [`highlightPostTag`](#3110-highlightposttag) parameters.

If `"*"` is provided as a value: e.g. `"attributesToHighlight":["*"]`, all the attributes present in `attributesToRetrieve` will be assigned to `attributesToHighlight`.

`attributesToHighlight` only works on values of the following types: `string`, `number`, `array`, `object`. When highlighted, number attributes are transformed to string.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Array[String]`(POST), `String`(GET) or `null` for `attributesToHighlight` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.8.1. searchableAttributes

Attributes not defined in the `searchableAttributes` index setting are also highlighted if assigned to `attributesToHighlight`.

##### 3.1.8.2. stopWords

> Attributes defined in the `stopWords` index setting are also highlighted if matched.

Author: Yes, I don't think it is a problem to highlight the terms written in the query terms whether they are stop-words or not.

The formatting of the search results is there to help the reading of the search results by highlighting the query terms contained in a search result. If a query term typed by the user can be highlighted, it should help the user read the results.

Stop-words are used to avoid degrading relevancy when they populate an attribute densely. I'm currently not convinced that removing them helps more than anything else regarding the reading of search results.

If you have arguments that help me to understand why it does not improve the reading of the search results if they are there, I am ready to reconsider the question!  

Good point about synonyms, I didn't know about this current behavior, I will specify it because it's nice.

> Attributes defined in the `stopWords` index setting are also highlighted if matched.

Author: Your thoughts are interesting, I think these are topics that can be addressed later if they need to be. Here is my thought to give more context:

- It describes the current behavior of the engine (for stop-words and synonyms). If this was a problem for a user at one time, it is not important enough to be important now. Changing this behavior could impact other users, it would involve adding an option to allow choosing but would add complexity and time to hit the v0.27.0 while we want to mostly reduce pain points regarding the customizable highlight tag / poor cropper that forces users to use `_matchesInfo` to do this work on the frontend-side.
- I also checked this behavior which is present by default in Algolia. With so little feedback and this behavior already in place, I think we can base our choices on what a well-placed and well-rated actor does.

I can give my feedback that goes in the opposite direction of your idea about stop words to give the change but again it's just to confront it.

If a query contains several stop-words, e.g. `The son was on the path of redemption`.  In this case, doesn't removing the stop-words complicate the readability if the exact phrase can be highlighted?

##### 3.1.11.2. searchableAttributes

As for `attributesToHighlight`, attributes not defined in the `searchableAttributes` index setting are also cropped if assigned to `attributesToCrop`.

##### 3.1.11.3. stopWords

Attributes defined in the `stopWords` index setting are counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

##### 3.1.11.3. Tokenizer Separators

Tokenizer separators aren't counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

#### 3.1.12. `cropLength`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `10`

Sets the total number of **words** to keep for the cropped part of an attribute specified in the `attributesToCrop` parameter. It means that if `10` is set for `cropLength`, the cropped part returned in `_formatted` will only be 10 words long.

This parameter is taken into account when `attributesToCrop` is specified. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3111-attributestocrop) section.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` or `null` for `cropLength` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.12.1 Examples

###### 3.1.12.1.1. Extending around

Given an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop` containing:

> `"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

Reviewer: 😨

With `croplength` defined as `5` and `q` defined as `boiling blood`, the cropped value will be:

`"…and with boiling blood he…"`

> Croppped query terms are counted as a word regarding `cropLength`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cropped query terms are counted as a word regarding `cropLength`.
```

###### 3.1.12.1.3. Length Reassignment to the left.

Given an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop` containing:

`"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

With `croplength` defined as `5` and `q` defined as `had robbed`, the cropped value will be:

`"…lords who had robbed him."`

In this example:

- `"had robbed"` count for `2` words.
- The right part contains `1` words. e.g. `"him.`.
- The cropped part will be filled by `2` words on the left to reach `cropLength`. e.g. `"lords who"`.

###### 3.1.12.1.2. Length Reassignment to the right.

Given an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop` containing:

`"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

With `croplength` defined as `5` and `q` defined as `hatred`, the cropped value will be:

> `"In his ravenous hatred he…"`

Reviewer: > "In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."

if the word is `he` I feel like with your examples the words around it are more often in front of the word than behind.

For example: 
```
 With boiling blood he scoured...
```

Instead of for example

```
blood he scoured the umbrella...
```

its a fake example just. In the first one 3 words are in front of `he` and in the second 3 word are behind `he`. 
What is the rule for this?

> `"In his ravenous hatred he…"`

Author: @ManyTheFish Regarding https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/pull/120#discussion_r837419461

Search results include a `_formatted` object containing the cropped attributes representation when this parameter is defined. See [3.2.1.1.2. `_formatted`](#32112-formatted) section.

If `"*"` is provided as a value: `attributesToCrop=["*"]` all the attributes present in the `displayedAttributes` setting will be automatically assigned to `_formatted`.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Array[String]`(POST), `String`(GET) or `null` for `attributesToCrop` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.11.1. Custom `cropLength` Defined Per Attribute.

Optionally, indicating a custom crop length for any of the listed attributes is possible:

`"attributesToCrop":["attributeNameA:15", "attributeNameB:30"]`

A custom crop length set in this way has priority over the `cropLength` parameter.

##### 3.1.11.2. searchableAttributes

Attributes configured in `attributesToCrop` are cropped even if not present in the `searchableAttributes` index setting.

##### 3.1.11.3. stopWords

> Attributes defined in the `stopWords` index setting are counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

Reviewer 2: Unless I'm very confused (always a possibility), stop-words don't accept attributes as values.

```suggestion
Terms defined in the `stopWords` index setting are counted as words regarding `cropLength`.
```

##### 3.1.11.3. Tokenizer Separators

Tokenizer separators aren't counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

#### 3.1.12. `cropLength`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `10`

Sets the total number of **words** to keep for the cropped part of an attribute specified in the `attributesToCrop` parameter. It means that if `10` is set for `cropLength`, the cropped part returned in `_formatted` will only be 10 words long.

This parameter is applied to the fields from `attributesToCrop`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3111-attributestocrop) section.

> Sending a `0` value is equivalent to `null` and thus deactivates the cropping. It works the same for a custom crop length per attribute in `attributesToCrop`, except it deactivates it for the related field.

Author: You are right @dichotommy, it is not clear. This statement "deactivates the cropping" only works if there is no overriding of the crop length directly in `attributesToCrop`, I will try to rephrase that.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` or `null` for `cropLength` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.12.1 Examples

###### 3.1.12.1.1. Extending around

Given an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop` containing:

`"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

With `croplength` defined as `5` and `q` defined as `boiling blood`, the cropped value will be:

> `"…and with boiling blood he…"`

Author: In this case yes but not necessarily, it will depend on other factors of the algorithm that seeks to select the best match.

> `"…and with boiling blood he…"`

Reviewer 3: the contract for a croplenght of 10 is: "always 10 words returned or all the attribute".

For instance, for the matching word `Split` the text:

`"Natalie risk her future. Split The World is a book written by Emily Henry. I never read it."`

will be cropped like:

`…Split The World is a book written by Emily Henry.…`

and not like:

`Natalie risk her future. Split The World is a book…`

#### 3.1.13. `cropMarker`

- Type: String
- Required: False
- Default: `"…"` (U+2026)

Sets which string to add before and/or after the cropped text. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3111-attributestocrop) section.

The specified crop marker is applied by following rules outline in section [3.1.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`](#311131-applying-cropmarker).

Specifying `cropMarker` to `""` or `null` implies that no marker will be applied to the cropped part.

This parameter is applied to the fields configured in `attributesToCrop`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3111-attributestocrop) section.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `String` or `null` for `cropMarker` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

> ##### 3.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`

Author: What do you mean by`?` @dichotommy?

> ##### 3.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`

Reviewer 4: There's a heading here but no content... or am I going crazy? 😱

> ##### 3.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`

Reviewer 4: Ah, is it just because you've passed the number of nesting allowed by HTML headers? I understand now, please ignore me 🐒

The cropping algorithm find the "best" matches, it tries to find the crop interval:

1. That have the highest count of unique matches

For example, for the query terms `split the world`, then the interval `the split the split the` has `5` matches but only `2` unique matches (`1` for `split` and `1` for `the`) where the interval `split of the world` has `3` matches and `3` unique matches. So the interval `split of the world` is considered better.

2. That have the minimum distance between matches

For example, for the query terms `split the world`, then the interval `split of the world` has a distance of `3` (`2` between `split` and `the`, and `1` between `the` and `world`) where the interval `split the world` has a distance of `2`. So the interval `split the world` is considered better.

3. That have the highest count of ordered matches

For example, for the query terms `split the world`, then the interval `the world split` has `2` ordered words where the interval `split the world` has `3`. So the interval `split the world` is considered better.

Only one cropped part from an attribute is returned.

> If no part is found when selecting a part to be cropped, the returned value in `_formatted` will start at the beginning of the attribute include a number of words equal to `cropLength`.

Author: Indeed it is the case, if there is only one word the algorithm will take the one the most left of the attribute. Here, the algorithm describes the case where there are several words that can be matched and in several places (the most _complex_ case).

> The search parameters `attributesToRetrieve` influence the returned payload for a hit. See [3.1.7. `attributesToRetrieve`](#317-attributestoretrieve) section.

A search result can contain special properties. See [3.2.1.1. `hit` Special Properties](#3211-hits-special-properties) section.

##### 3.2.1.1. `hit` Special Properties

| Field                                | Type        | Required |
|--------------------------------------|-------------|----------|
| [`_geoDistance`](#32111-geodistance) | Integer     | False    |
| [`_formatted`](#32112-formatted)     | Object      | False    |
| [`_matchesInfo`](#32113-matchesinfo) | Object      | False    |

###### 3.2.1.1.1. `_geoDistance`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Search queries using `_geoPoint` returns a `_geoDistance` field containing the distance in meters between the document `_geo` coordinates and the specified `_geoPoint`.

> See [GeoSearch](0059-geo-search.md)

###### 3.2.1.1.2. `_formatted`

- Type: Object
- Required: False

`_formatted` returns highlighted and cropped attributes specified in `attributesToHighlight` and/or `attributesToCrop` of a search result.

> - If `attributesToHighlight` and `attributesToCrop` are not set, `_formatted` is not returned.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `_formatted` is only returned if one or both of `attributesToHighlight` and `attributesToCrop` are set.
```

> - If cumulated fields in `attributesToHighlight` and `attributesToCrop` resolve to only having non-existent fields, `_formatted` is not returned.

Reviewer 4: If I understand this correctly, it could be rewritten as:

```suggestion
- If none of the fields contained in `attributesToHighlight` and `attributesToCrop` are present in any of the matched documents, `_formatted` is not returned.
```

Search results include a `_formatted` object containing the highlighted parts when this parameter is defined. See [3.2.1.1.2. `_formatted`](#32112-formatted) section.

Highlighted parts are surrounded by the [`highlightPreTag`](#319-highlightpretag) and [`highlightPostTag`](#3110-highlightposttag) parameters.

If `"*"` is provided as a value: e.g. `"attributesToHighlight":["*"]`, all the attributes present in `attributesToRetrieve` will be assigned to `attributesToHighlight`.

`attributesToHighlight` only works on values of the following types: `string`, `number`, `array`, `object`. When highlighted, number attributes are transformed to string.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Array[String]`(POST), `String`(GET) or `null` for `attributesToHighlight` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.8.1. searchableAttributes

Attributes not defined in the `searchableAttributes` index setting are also highlighted if assigned to `attributesToHighlight`.

##### 3.1.8.2. stopWords

Attributes defined in the `stopWords` index setting are also highlighted if matched.

##### 3.1.8.3. Tokenizer Separators

> Tokenizer separators are not highlighted.

Author: @guimachiavelli Good point! If I remember, we discussed it with Many during our discovery phase but we made the choice not to change this behavior in order to keep a consistent behavior on how to apply the highlight tags. I note it as a future possibility.

##### 3.1.8.4. synonyms

Synonyms are also highlighted.

#### 3.1.9. `highlightPreTag`

- Type: String
- Required: False
- Default: `"<em>"`

> Specifies the tag, or sequence, to put **before** every highlighted query terms.

Author: Yes @guimachiavelli, this is what "sequence" allowed me to express, the simplest would be perhaps to write string. There is no particular check to verify whether it is an HTML tag or not.

##### 3.1.11.2. searchableAttributes

As for `attributesToHighlight`, attributes not defined in the `searchableAttributes` index setting are also cropped if assigned to `attributesToCrop`.

##### 3.1.11.3. stopWords

Attributes defined in the `stopWords` index setting are counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

##### 3.1.11.3. Tokenizer Separators

Tokenizer separators aren't counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

#### 3.1.12. `cropLength`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `10`

Sets the total number of **words** to keep for the cropped part of an attribute specified in the `attributesToCrop` parameter. It means that if `10` is set for `cropLength`, the cropped part returned in `_formatted` will only be 10 words long.

This parameter is applied to the fields from `attributesToCrop`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3111-attributestocrop) section.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` or `null` for `cropLength` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.12.1 Examples

> ###### 3.1.12.1.1. Extending around

Author: @ManyTheFish Regarding https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/pull/120#discussion_r837419461

> ###### 3.1.12.1.1. Extending around

Reviewer 3: Hey @guimachiavelli and @gmourier!
About how do we crop around match [I wrote a response here](https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/pull/120#discussion_r837495765).

About how do we find the "best" matches, we try to find the crop interval:
1) that have the highest count of unique matches
> for example, if we have a query `split the world`, then the interval `the split the split the` has 4 matches but only 2 unique matches (1 for `split` and 1 for `the`) where the interval `split of the world` has 3 matches and 3 unique matches. So the interval `split of the world` is considered better.
2) that have the minimum distance between matches
> for example, if we have a query `split the world`, then the interval `split of the world` has a distance of 3 (2 between `split` and `the`, and 1 between `the` and `world`) where the interval `split the world` has a distance of 2. So the interval `split the world` is considered better.
3) that have the highest count of ordered matches
> for example, if we have a query `split the world`, then the interval `the world split` has 2 ordered words where the interval `split the world` has 3. So the interval `split the world` is considered better.

> ###### 3.1.12.1.1. Extending around

Reviewer 2: Great, thanks for clarifying, @ManyTheFish!

Given an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop` containing:

> `"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

Reviewer 5: What happens if I search for `he found no peace` but I set `cropLength` to 2 ? 
And what if I set it to 0 ? Is it considered as null ?

> `"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

Author: @ManyTheFish You may have a more precise way of describing the behavior than me. Can you suggest what you implemented regarding the cropping algorithm? It will really help me here 🙏 🤯

> `"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

Reviewer 3: Hey @guimachiavelli and @gmourier!
From my side, the behavior is to crop around words in the same context that matching words. This means that we will keep words that are farther from the matching words but are in the same phrase, than words that are nearer but separated by a dot.
For instance, for the matching word `Split` the text:
`Natalie risk her future. Split The World is a book written by Emily Henry. I never read it.`
will be cropped like:
`…Split The World is a book written by Emily Henry. …`
and  not like:
`Natalie risk her future. Split The World is a book …`

Given an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop` containing:

`"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

With `croplength` defined as `5` and `q` defined as `had robbed`, the cropped value will be:

`"…lords who had robbed him."`

In this example:

- `"had robbed"` count for `2` words.
- The right part contains `1` words. e.g. `"him.`.
- The cropped part will be filled by `2` words on the left to reach `cropLength`. e.g. `"lords who"`.

###### 3.1.12.1.2. Length Reassignment to the right.

Given an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop` containing:

`"In his ravenous hatred he found no peace, and with boiling blood he scoured the umbral plains, seeking vengence afgainst the dark lords who had robbed him."`

With `croplength` defined as `5` and `q` defined as `hatred`, the cropped value will be:

`"In his ravenous hatred he…"`

In this example:

- `"hatred"` count for `1` word.
- The left part contains `3` words. e.g. `"In his ravenous`.
- The cropped part will be filled by `1` words on the right to reach `cropLength`. e.g. `"he"`.

#### 3.1.13. `cropMarker`

> - Type: String

Author: They can use a string of any length, I don't see why we should deprive them of it. I will precise that!

- If parts have equivalent density, i.e. having the same numbers of query terms found, the algorithm will favor the part that contains the query terms closest to each other.
- Then if parts have equivalent density, i.e. having the same distance between query terms, the algorithm will favor the part that contains the query terms in the order specified in `q`.
- If there are still parts with an equivalent density, the algorithm will choose the first one encountered within the attribute.

Only one cropped part from an attribute is returned.

If no part is found when selecting a part to be cropped. The returned value in `_formatted` will start at the beginning of the attribute until the distance of `cropLength` is reached.

###### 3.1.13.1.2. Positioning Markers

If the cropped part has been matched against query terms and contains the beginning of the attribute to be cropped, the `cropMarker` is not placed to the left of the cropped part.

If the cropped part has been matched against query terms and contains the end of the attribute to be cropped, the `cropMarker` is not placed to the right of the cropped part.

> #### 3.1.14. `matches`

Author: Yes, `_matchesInfo` contains the positions or query terms matched in the document, regardless of whether they are highlighted or cropped.

Stop-words, if encountered are included in `_matchesInfo` as are synonyms.

- Type: Boolean
- Required: False
- Default: `false`

> Adds a `_matchesInfo` object to the search response that contains the location of each occurrence of queried terms across all fields. The given positions are in bytes.

Author: It is an arbitrary choice that does not fit everyone. I don't have the exact explanation in my head, but it seems to me that it comes from the way the tokenizer gets some characters from the Unicode table that are several bytes long. Making this character is not perfect, as well as taking the number of bytes. 

There are two sides to this, but during the discovery phase, we realize that people use `_matchesInfo` to put their own highlight tag, cropping marker, or rework the cropping which is not very useful nowadays.

The best solution might be to offer both `bytes`/`chars` modes in the future if people want to do what they want. What's interesting is that our competitors don't offer this feature and it doesn't seem to bother their users more than that.

> Adds a `_matchesInfo` object to the search response that contains the location of each occurrence of queried terms across all fields. The given positions are in bytes.

Reviewer 2: Ok, that makes sense. Thanks!

Search results include a `_formatted` object containing the cropped attributes representation when this parameter is defined. See [3.2.1.1.2. `_formatted`](#32112-formatted) section.

If `"*"` is provided as a value: `attributesToCrop=["*"]` all the attributes present in `attributesToRetrieve` will be automatically assigned to `attributesToCrop`.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Array[String]`(POST), `String`(GET) or `null` for `attributesToCrop` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.11.1. Custom `cropLength` Defined Per Attribute.

Optionally, indicating a custom crop length for any of the listed attributes is possible:

`"attributesToCrop":["attributeNameA:15", "attributeNameB:30"]`

A custom crop length set in this way has priority over the `cropLength` parameter.

##### 3.1.11.2. searchableAttributes

As for `attributesToHighlight`, attributes not defined in the `searchableAttributes` index setting are also cropped if assigned to `attributesToCrop`.

#### 3.1.1.12. `cropLength`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `10`

> Sets the total number of **words** to keep around the matched part of an attribute specified in the `attributesToCrop` parameter.

Author: I have clarified the sentence (so that it is clearer and does not leave room for doubts) and you can find examples further in the specification. See 3.1.12.1.1. Extending around section.

If `attributesToCrop` is not configured, `cropLength` has no effect on the returned results.

> - 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` or `null` for `cropLength` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

Author: If there is no error, we must assume that nothing happens.

#### 3.1.1.13. `cropMarker`

- Type: String
- Required: False
- Default: `"…"` (U+2026)

Sets the crop marker to apply before and/or after cropped part selected within an attribute defined in `attributesToCrop`. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3111-attributestocrop) section.

The specified crop marker is applied by following rules. See [3.1.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`](#311131-applying-cropmarker) section.

Specifying `cropMarker` to `""` or `null` implies that no marker will be applied to the cropped part, if any.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `String` or `null` for `cropMarker` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`

###### 3.1.1.13.1.1. Matched Part To Be Cropped

> The cropping algorithm tries to match the window with the highest density of query terms within the `cropLength` limit. Then it will pick the window that contains the more ordered query terms.

Reviewer 6: Not sure to understand, especially the "Then it will pick the window that contains the more ordered query terms". Maybe an example would help :)

Author: I have rewritten this section "Matched Part To Be Cropped" with a detail of the density calculation. I hope it is clearer. 🙏

If two windows have the same density, it chooses the first one within the attribute to be cropped. It also means that only one cropped part is returned.

If no match is found when selecting a part to be cropped. The returned value in `_formatted` will start at the beginning of the attribute until the distance of `cropLength` without any `cropMarker` being applied.

###### 3.1.1.13.1.2. Positioning Markers

If the cropped part has been matched against query terms and contains the beginning of the attribute to be cropped, the `cropMarker` is not placed to the left of the cropped part.

If the cropped part has been matched against query terms and contains the end of the attribute to be cropped, the `cropMarker` is not placed to the right of the cropped part.

#### 3.1.1.14. `matches`

- Type: Boolean
- Required: False
- Default: `false`

> Adds a `_matchesInfo` object to the search response that contains the location of each occurrence of queried terms across all fields. It's useful when more control is needed than offered by the built-in highlighting/cropping features.

Reviewer 6: Maybe precise this is the number of bytes

Reviewer 6: Is it something we would consider to change?

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Boolean` or `null` for `matches` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

### 3.2. Search Response Properties

> | Field                                                 | Type                         | Required |

Reviewer 6: What does it mean "required" for a search response?
Do you mean "present by default"?

Author: Yes, that's right!

#### 3.2.1. `hits`

- Type: Array[Hit]
- Required: True

Results of the search query as an array of documents.

> Hit object represents a matched document as a search result.

> The search parameters `attributesToRetrieve` influence the returned payload for a hit. See [3.1.7. `attributesToRetrieve`](#317-attributestoretrieve) section.

A search result can host special properties. See [3.2.1.1. `hit` Special Properties](#3211-hits-special-properties) section.

##### 3.2.1.1. `hit` Special Properties

| Field                                | Type        | Required |
|--------------------------------------|-------------|----------|
| [`_geoDistance`](#32111-geodistance) | Integer     | False    |
| [`_formatted`](#32112-formatted)     | Object      | False    |
| [`_matchesInfo`](#32113-matchesinfo) | Object      | False    |

###### 3.2.1.1.1. `_geoDistance`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Search queries using `_geoPoint` returns a `_geoDistance` field containing the distance in meters between the document `_geo` coordinates and the specified `_geoPoint`.

> See [GeoSearch](0059-geo-search.md)

###### 3.2.1.1.2. `_formatted`

- Type: Object
- Required: False

> `_formatted` returns highlighted and cropped attributes specified in `attributesToHighlight` and/or `attributesToCrop` of a search result.

Reviewer 6: If I understand correctly, only the `attributesToHighlight` and `attributesToCrop` are put in `_formatted`. If `*` is set as `attributesToHighlight` or `attributesToCrop`, _formatted will return `attributesToRetrieve`?

Reviewer: From what I remember, attributesToRetrieves only impacts the fields at the root of the hit. AttributesToHighlight and attributesToCrop applies only in `_formatted`.

Author: The behavior is unchanged from today. I have added some important instructions about this (extracted from the deleted _formatted-field-behavior specification).

- If `attributesToHighlight` and `attributesToCrop` are not set, `_formatted` is not returned.
- If cumulated fields in `attributesToHighlight` and `attributesToCrop` resolve to only having non-existent fields, `_formatted` is not returned.
- If `attributesToRetrieve` is equal to `*` and `attributesToHighlight` or `attributesToCrop` are equals to `*`, `_formatted` is returned and contains `attributesToRetrieve` fields then compute highlights and crops on each received fields.
- If `attributesToRetrieve` is equal to `*` and `attributesToHighlight` or `attributesToCrop` contains a set of fields, `_formatted` is returned and contains `attributesToRetrieve` fields but only compute highlights and crops on fields declared in `attributesToHighlight` or `attributesToCrop`.

Author: Yes!

Sending more query terms than the `cropLength` value has no impact. The cropped part will contain the `cropLength` number.

###### 3.1.12.1.2. Keeping a phrase context

> Meilisearch keep words that are farther from the matching words but are in the same phrase, than words that are nearer but separated by a dot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When determining where to crop, Meilisearch searches for matches that are maybe further from each other but that are present in the same sentence instead of matches that are close but separated by a dot (end of sentence).
```

Reviewer 4: Or is it just what the example below would suggest, that if it makes no difference to criteria such as number of unique matches, Meilisearch will try to start or end the crop at the beginning or end of the sentence?

I think the example could be improved if you changed the sentence to something like

`"Eventually, Natalie and her split up. Split The World is a book written by Emily Henry. The world never fully recognized her talent."`

I think that would provide a clearer view of the edge cases

Reviewer: In this case, do you have an idea on how to rephrase it @dichotommy

Reviewer: I prefer the first one!

The cropping algorithm tries to match the window with the highest density of query terms within the `cropLength` limit.

> The cropping algorithm find the "best" matches, it tries to find the crop interval:

Reviewer: not sure I understand this sentence. Could you rephrase it?

> 1. That have the highest count of unique matches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. That has the highest count of unique matches
```

Added to the search response when `facetsDistribution` is set for a search query. It contains the number of remaining candidates for each specified facet in the `facetsDistribution` search parameter.

> If a field distributed as a facet contains no value, it is returned as a `facetDistribution` field with an empty object as value.

Reviewer: What do you mean with this?

Author: Trying to explain the expected behavior here https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/2352#issue-1216056948  !

Author: I will rephrase it soon to be more precise with our last tests

Reviewer: Ah I see!
